---
layout: post
title: Introductions and Resolutions
tags: personal
---

I'm a few days late but Happy New Year! Happy first blog post! Hopefully you've looked around a little bit but if you haven't, allow me to introduce myself and my site. I'm Sarah, I'm 24, and I'm looking to explore programming a little bit more. I took a couple classes in college while working on my civil engineering degree, but I've been having a mild existential/quarter-life crisis about what exactly I want to do with my life, and computers/programming/problem solving are all things I'm interested in (and have been since I was a teenager).

So what exactly am I doing with this? The site itself was/is a way to keep my basic web programming skills sharp. It uses Jekyll (shout out to Mark Otto of GitHub for the theme). I originally intended to show more of my college projects on the [projects]({{ site.url }}/projects/) page, but as I was going back through them (all of which are around 3 years old and I barely remember how I did them, despite seeming easy at the time), they didn't seem super impressive. Not that I'm not proud of them, I just don't feel like they're worth showing. Hopefully I can get some new stuff up there this year. Speaking of, I plan on using this handy blog section to document my progress on some yearly goals, as well as write whatever I feel like writing about.

Some of my goals for the year:

- **Learn Python.** I really like data visualization (I read [FiveThirtyEight](http://fivethirtyeight.com/) pretty much daily), and Python is a common language so it seems like a good starting place. I bought a book last year and will begin to tackle that as soon as the site goes public (wrote this entry early). I also picked up a Java book off the sidewalk and may or may not start that this year depending on where my Python learning leads.
- **Blog posts twice a month.** It's a good starting point and I'm already 1/26th of the way done!
- **Read 20 books.** I set the bar kind of low on this one, but I'll hopefully be spending more free time on programming and other more outdoorsy or social activities. I did start my first book, *Smart Cities* by Anthony M. Townsend, on January 2nd, so that's a good start.
- And of course the vague lifestyle goals like eat less crap, exercise more, floss on occasion, not die, etc.

Cheers to a new year. Hopefully it's less of a dumpster fire, but pretty much everything is uncertain after January 20th. See you on the other side.
